README.md, before:

# NLQToSQL
Natural language query to SQL LLM/agent project

## Steps to play around with this agent on mac:

1. Clone the repository
2. In nlqToSql directory:
	1. run "python createSqliteDB.py" to create a sample Sqlite3 DB called shop.db
	2. run "python createSampleData.py" to populate this DB with 1000 customers, 500 products, and 10000 orders
3. You can install "DB browser for Sqlite" to access shop.db
4. Command line:
```
$ python main.py --help
usage: main.py [-h] [--file FILE]
Natural language query to SQL tool.

options:
	-h, --help   show this help message and exit
	--file FILE  Input file containing a list of queries
``` 

## TBDs:

1. With Google AI, and the current shop.db schema:
	1. Try a variety of queries, with column selection, sorting, grouping etc.
	2. Check their correctness
	3. Create a test suite
	4. See how much is the accuracy
	5. See how accuracy can be improved through prompt improvemts through interactive feedback/clarifiying comments, post-training, RL etc.
2. Perform the above step now with a more complex schema:
	1. Overall, note the limitations of the system
	2. Apply techniques from https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/databases/techniques-for-improving-text-to-sql
3. Perform above steps with models from OpenAI and Anthropic
4. Test these models with the test suite
5. Compare which models are performing better
6. Think about some other schemes to improve accuracy e.g. by comparing outputs from different models etc.
7. Add a frontend
8. Dockerize the whole "product"
9. Integrate with Birder.media
10. Dig deeper into other similar works, e.g.: https://levelup.gitconnected.com/how-to-build-a-natural-language-data-querying-agent-with-a-production-ready-co-pilot-24009b86e696
11. Look into the relevance of MCP based architectures in this problem context.

Commit message:

input, output file names changed

README.md, after:

# NLQToSQL
Natural language query to SQL LLM/agent project

## Steps to play around with this agent on mac:

1. Clone the repository
2. In nlqToSql directory:
	1. run "python createSqliteDB.py" to create a sample Sqlite3 DB called shop.db
	2. run "python createSampleData.py" to populate this DB with 1000 customers, 500 products, and 10000 orders
3. You can install "DB browser for Sqlite" to access shop.db
4. Command line:
```
$ python main.py -h
usage: main.py [-h] [-ifile IFILE] [-ofile OFILE]

Natural language query to SQL tool.

options:
  -h, --help    show this help message and exit
  -ifile IFILE  Input file containing a list of natural language queries
  -ofile OFILE  Output file containing the list of the corresponding SQL queries
``` 

## TBDs:

1. With Google AI, and the current shop.db schema:
	1. Try a variety of queries, with column selection, sorting, grouping etc.
	2. Check their correctness
	3. Create a test suite
	4. See how much is the accuracy
	5. See how accuracy can be improved through prompt improvemts through interactive feedback/clarifiying comments, post-training, RL etc.
2. Perform the above step now with a more complex schema:
	1. Overall, note the limitations of the system
	2. Apply techniques from https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/databases/techniques-for-improving-text-to-sql
3. Perform above steps with models from OpenAI and Anthropic
4. Test these models with the test suite
5. Compare which models are performing better
6. Think about some other schemes to improve accuracy e.g. by comparing outputs from different models etc.
7. Add a frontend
8. Dockerize the whole "product"
9. Integrate with Birder.media
10. Dig deeper into other similar works, e.g.: https://levelup.gitconnected.com/how-to-build-a-natural-language-data-querying-agent-with-a-production-ready-co-pilot-24009b86e696
11. Look into the relevance of MCP based architectures in this problem context.
